---
template: detail
title: Collections
description: Create collections to organize your Markdown content.
date: 2021-08-01
---
A collection is a logical grouping of Markdown content. Collections are located within the <span class="hl">project/resources/collections</span> directory.
Dagger interprets each directory here as an individual collection. The frontmatter from a collection's files are made available by 
iterating over the collections name (the directory name) within a template. Collection files are also compiled and written out to the 
file system just like [page](/guides/pages/index.html) files.

A collection file located at <span class="hl">project/resources/collections/guides/pages.md</span> will end up at <span class="hl">project/site/guides/pages/index.html</span>. 
Dagger projects are intended to be served at the <span class="hl">project/site</span> directory, so this file will be accessible at <span class="hl">domain.com/guides/pages</span>.

It is essential that Markdown collection files include a <span class="hl">template</span> key that specifies the name, not including the file extension, of the 
template file that the body of this collection file will be injected into to create a full HTML document.

To see an example of iterating over a collection and accessing the frontmatter within, refer to the <span class="hl">project/resources/collections</span> directory 
of the example site that is generated by creating a new Dagger project. It contains a <span class="hl">guides</span> collection with three files. The template file 
located at <span class="hl">project/resources/pages/index.hbs</span> iterates over this collection and generates a list of items.

As mentioned earlier, iterating over the contents of a collection gets you access to all frontmatter established at the top of each file, but 
it is important to know that Dagger also makes a <span class="hl">{{ path }}</span> key available for user in your templates that will always map to the location of the
document that is currently in scope.